Severe thunderstorms will hit the South and Midwest Tuesday into Tuesday night with threats of widespread damaging winds, large hail and a few tornadoes. Some severe weather could persist into Wednesday in the Southeast.

Tuesday morning, an isolated severe thunderstorm dropped large hail on the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. Hail up to the size of ping-pong balls was reported at the National Weather Service office in Fort Worth.
The more widespread threat of severe weather will occur late Tuesday afternoon and Tuesday evening.

In the southern portion of the severe threat area shown below, large hail and an isolated tornado threat could be the initial concerns from southeastern Kansas into central and northeastern Oklahoma late Tuesday afternoon. This includes Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Oklahoma.

The storms will then congeal into a squall line with widespread damaging winds and an isolated tornado threat as they move southeastward Tuesday evening toward southeastern Oklahoma, north-central and northeastern Texas, Arkansas and Louisiana. It's possible this severe weather threat could meet the criteria for a damaging wind event called a derecho, but that will depend on how widespread it becomes.

In the Midwest threat area, strong to severe storms could have damaging winds, large hail and a few tornadoes. This includes parts of Missouri, southwestern Wisconsin, Illinois and eastern Iowa.

The low-pressure system will track eastward on Wednesday. Rain will continue in parts of the Midwest, while showers and thunderstorms move across parts of the South.

There could be a lingering threat of severe weather in coastal Texas and southern Louisiana in the early-morning hours. Strong thunderstorm winds would be the main concern.

Strong to severe storms could increase Wednesday afternoon in the Southeast, particularly in parts of southeastern Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia. Localized damaging wind gusts and large hail would be the main threats from any storms that do intensify, but a couple of tornadoes cannot be ruled out.

Atlanta; Columbus, Georgia; Birmingham and Montgomery, Alabama; and New Orleans are some of the cities that could have strong to severe storms on Wednesday.

Showers and thunderstorms may linger into Thursday in parts of the Southeast, mainly toward the coastal Carolinas and in Florida. A few severe storms are possible in these areas Thursday.